---
title: "Why I develop in C ッ"
date: 2021-12-22T22:21:00.000Z
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - basics
  - model
---

The approaches established by Unix to develop and distribute software are considered mature but also old-fashioned and outdated. Modern programming languages and architectures are considered the tool of choice. But even with the old Unix tools, it is possible to implement and manage a high-performance deep learning application with minimal effort.

<!-- more -->

Is it still possible to efficiently implement complex, modern programs with C - the number one programming language of the past?

We all stand on the shoulders of giants. This is especially true for the ever faster-transforming software industry. I have been working as a software architect for many years and developing modern, object-oriented programming languages with modern IDEs for highly scalable, cloud-based computer systems. But all these new technologies are based on a more humble, academic-driven beginning. Today, software development is still based on successful fundamental achievements such as Unix, the Posix System, and especially the C programming language.

C is an imperative and procedural programming language developed by computer scientist Dennis Ritchie at Bell Laboratories in the early 1970s. Since then, it has become one of the most widely used programming languages. The main application area of C today is in system programming, especially of embedded systems, drivers, and operating system kernels. The reason is the combination of desired characteristics such as portability and efficiency with the possibility to address hardware directly while having low requirements for a runtime environment. This makes C practically unique and is also called the lingua franca of programming languages.

C gives the programmer absolute freedom to solve the task at hand. As a result, you can perform direct memory accesses, call assembly directives and even embed assembly code as needed. That is why C meets my requirements perfectly.

